A narrative reflection (MD file) on the design choices you made and how you used them to work towards your rhetorical goals (purpose, audience, context). Use design concepts and terms from the readings. You may combine your intro and reflection into one creator’s statement. If you do this, note that it is a combination intro and reflection in or below the title.)

My goal with this project was to create a poster that would either entice the general public to look up further information about nuclear energy. I did this by I cherry-picked the worst information about solar energy (such as how 90% of decommissioned solar panels end up not being recycled and deforestation) and the best information about nuclear energy (such as how 95% of nuclear waste is recycled and the remaining 5% is safely entombed) to paint nuclear energy as a superior alternative to solar energy. Given that this is meant to be a wheatpaste poster that a viewer would only glance at abruptly while walking, I could not display all the nuances and necessary information to properly educate people, which is why I cherry-picked the best and the worst of nuclear and solar energy respectively. Given that the general public has a more favorable outlook on solar energy than they do nuclear energy, painting nuclear energy as a preferrable alternative to solar energy would instill a sense of doubt about their knowledge of solar energy and subsequently nuclear energy, leading them to look it up either out of curiosity or anger for having seen such a biased opinion in this poster.

I made the decision to split the page in half, one side full of solar panels and the other a lone nuclear reactor, along with their respective information bits. This would allow me to contrast their differences visually, specifically how many solar panels it would take to produce the same amount of energy as a lone nuclear power plant. Given that both solar and nuclear power are considered green energy, I made the ground under each half full of green grass to represent such. However, I elected to make the nuclear energy half have more grass to make it more green and thus appealing, and to drive in the fact that solar energy sometimes requires deforestation to be implemented.

I also deliberately chose to keep the color palette as non-aggressive or non-hostile as possible, using soft colors least associated with aggression such as a warm yellow to light blue gradient for the sky, lush green for a more nature-like "feel" and most importantly, the authoritative text saying "CHOOSE" was made yellow because it is close enough to red to instill urgency but not red enough to be aggressive torwards the viewer.

I used a lot of repetition on the side of the solar panels to drive in the fact that 8 million solar panels, which is a ridiculously, incomprehensibly large number is required to match the output of a significantly smaller  nuclear power plant. This endless "sea" of solar powers is a visual pun for that 8 million number.

I kept the font style consistent because after all this is meant to be an educational poster and it should not be hard on the viewers' eyes. I also ensure that their alignment was mirrored on both sides to make it seem that under the same amount of information from both sides, nuclear energy is more appealing.
I used a lot of empty space particularly by blurring parts of the background that was behind text so that the viewer's could properly read the information. The fact that the two halfs split straight through the middle also allows the viewers to focus on the comparison visually.

I tried to keep the Signal-to-Noise Ratio as low as possible as to not overwhelm viewers with such a heavy, technicaly topic; The background was relatively simple and informational text kept to a relative minimum.


